= Reittiopas

* {Documentation at Github}[http://raneksi.github.com/reittiopas/]
* {Specifications}[http://raneksi.github.com/reittiopas/specdoc]

== DESCRIPTION:

Reittiopas is a Ruby library for accessing the {Reittiopas Developer API}[http://developer.reittiopas.fi/pages/fi/reittiopas-api.php].

Requires an account to the service that can be requested through {the account request page}[http://developer.reittiopas.fi/pages/fi/accountrequest.php].

== SYNOPSIS:
 require 'reittiopas'
 reittiopas = Reittiopas.new(:username => 'myuser', :password => 'lolcats')

=== Geocoding
Search for location by keyword _tee_.
  location = reittiopas.location('tee').first
  puts "#{location}, #{location.city}"
  puts "http://maps.google.com/maps?q=#{URI.escape location.coordinates[:wgs]}"
Teeripuisto, Helsinki

http://maps.google.com/maps?q=60.2528,%2025.02051

=== Reverse geocoding
Search for a location by KKJ[http://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kartastokoordinaattij%C3%A4rjestelm%C3%A4] coordinates.
  location = reittiopas.location(:x => 2546445, :y => 6675512).first
  puts "#{location}, #{location.city}"
Otakaari 9, Espoo

=== Routing

Search for routes between two locations: show 3 routes and do not use metro.

  from = reittiopas.locations('mannerheimintie 5').first
  to = reittiopas.location('kallion kirjasto').first

  routes = reittiopas.routing(from, to, {"show" => 3,
                                         "use_metro" => 0})

  routes.each do |route|
	puts "#{route.distance} #{route.time}"
	puts "Lines: "

	route.lines.each do |line|
		puts "#{line.code} starts from: #{line.stops.first.code}"
	end
  end

Options for routing are passed to Reittiopas.  See Reittiopas developer API for the possible options.


== INSTALLATION:

  gem install reittiopas

or for the latest git:

  git clone git://github.com/raneksi/reittiopas.git
  cd reittiopas
  rake newb
  rake install_gem

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Nokogiri[http://nokogiri.org/]
* Addressable[http://github.com/sporkmonger/addressable]

== TODO:

* Support for determining the closest stop within radius
* Routing

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 - 2011:

* {Raine Virta}[https://github.com/raneksi]
* {Matti Paksula}[https://github.com/matti]

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
